# Contributing to UnifySDK

## Reporting issues ##

Currently there is no way to report issue in the github project,
however supported @SiliconLabs customers can report cases individually.


## Git Branch naming conventions ##

There is no strong requirement for now, but user are encouraged to
track their changes by prefixing branch names with meaningful prefixes
such as "feature" or "bugfix".

If the change refers to existing context id, feel free to add it.


## Commit message format ##

Commit message should not exceed 50 characters.

Within your commits, you can include a commit description,
allowing us to add even more detail / context as to what you did.

Add an empty line underneath the commit message,
and begin writing a description from line 3.

Example:

```
Fixes Issue with login button not showing.

- Update login form validation
- Update login styling for showing the button
```


## Pull request guidelines ##

Pull Request Naming guidelines.

```
Context: <message clearing explaining what commit does>
```

Write a useful description in the "details" section of your pull request.

Max size of Pull request should be < 300 lines (excluding autogenerated code)

If Changes are greater than 300 lines,
try to split the changes into logical groups using multiple PRs.

Pull Request should be raised only after running the existing unit Test cases,
lint script passed in locally.

One Pull Request should address only one issues
(don’t combine multiple changes including indentation as well)

Please avoid to change the code while reviewing,
nd in case of partial code it should mandatory have draft state.

Use "Draft" state for asking developers not to review the code
or to block merging code.

Pull Request should be ideally closed within 2-3 days of raising the request.


### As a Reviewer: ###

What to consider when we are reviewing a Pull Request

Does the code has successful build ?

Does the code follow unify coding guidelines?

Does the code meet its objective / acceptance criteria?

Does the code have unit test and documentation included?

Does the code need any refactoring, considering security,
performance or simply ease of reading?

Use "Suggestion" feature which allows you to add
a code suggestion directly into the comment,
which can instantly be accepted and committed from within the PR.

Write clear comments.
Describe the issue, why you don’t agree (mistakes, errors, violations against
conventions, performance risk, security issues, etc.),
and propose other solutions to simplify and improve the code.

If any of the comments need to be addressed mandatory,
mark the pull request as Draft.

## Unit tests ##

Build with -DBUILD_TESTING=ON

Then "ninja" and "ninja test" : this command runs all the tests.

If you want to test individually
you can do by running test executables from shell

Build and unit tests are run from contributor fork using github actions.
