# Unify Release Notes

Below are descriptions of the changes to our shared components, packaged in the _libuic_ Debian package. These changes affects all applications based on the Unify Host SDK.

For the full documentation of this latest release, go to [Unify Host SDK documentation](https://siliconlabs.github.io/UnifySDK).

For the application specific release notes, please follow these links:

* [GMS](applications/gms/release_notes.md)
* [NAL](applications/nal/release_notes.md)
* [Dev GUI](applications/dev_ui/dev_gui/release_notes.md)
* [Image Provider](applications/image_provider/release_notes.md)
* [UPVL](applications/upvl/release_notes.md)
* [ZigPC](applications/zigpc/release_notes.md)
* [ZPC](applications/zpc/release_notes.md)
* [UPTICap](applications/upti_cap/release_notes.md)
* [UPTIWriter](applications/upti_writer/release_notes.md)
* [AoXPC](applications/aox/applications/aoxpc/release_notes.md)
* [AoX Positioning application](applications/aox/applications/positioning/release_notes.md)
* [CPCd](applications/cpcd/release_notes.md)
* [OpenThread Border Router](applications/openthread_border_router/release_notes.md)
* [Zigbeed](applications/zigbeed/release_notes.md)
* [Portable Runtime](portable_runtime/release_notes.md)

## [1.2.1] - Sep 2022

### Changed (1.2.1)

* Attribute Store does not save sequentially to the datastore and now uses a
  contiki process. A new configuration allows to configure:
  * A cooldown timer, which will wait for this time after the last Attribute
    Store update before saving to the datastore.
  * A safety timer, which will save to the datastore regularly, in case the
    Attribute Store is being updated more often than the cooldown timer for a
    too long time.
* ZAP Generated files are now committed as source and ZAP is not run as part of
  the normal build step anymore. In order to generate ZAP files during build one
  must add the cmake option `-DZAP_GENERATE=ON` during cmake configuration.

### Fixes (1.2.1)

* Attribute Store Poll Engine did not remove attributes from the poll queue,
  when they were deleted causing a warning to be printed when a deleted
  attribute was to be polled.

## [1.2.0] - Aug 2022

### Added (1.2.0)

* Shared attribute store helpers to read/write ZCL attributes
* Portable Runtime * allows you to demo a Unify based Z-Wave IoT Gateway on your Windows, Mac or Linux Desktop with the help of Docker containers.
* Binaries for x86_64 has been released * they are unsupported for now.
* New Debian packages:
  * libuic-dev - Unify development header files.
  * uic-cpcd - Silabs Co-Processor Communication Daemon for Linux.
  * uic-cpc-hci-bridge - Bluetooth on host, via chip managed by CPCd.
  * uic-otbr - OpenThread Border Router, via chip managed by CPCd.
  * uic-zigbeed - Zigbee stack on host, via chip managed by CPCd (armhf only).

### Changed (1.2.0)

* Attribute Store can be configured runtime to:
  * Save automatically all changes to the Datastore
  * Perform validation of add/write operations based on attribute type registrations
* Attribute Mapper/Utils understand automatically all numerical types in the
attribute store based on type registration.
* Code depending on [GeckoSDK](https://github.com/SiliconLabs/gecko_sdk) has been bumped to the latest release version 4.1.0.
* The Debian packages have been put in a combined Zip package - eg. `unify_x.y.z_armhf.zip`.
* Rust version bumped from 1.58.1 to 1.60.0.
* Documentation is now generated by [Sphinx](https://www.sphinx-doc.org/) with a [Read The Docs](https://readthedocs.org/) theme, similar to subpages on [](docs.silabs.com).
* Build changes:
  * Default builds now includes building CPCd, OTBR and Zigbeed. Relevant build flags to disable these are BUILD_CPCD, BUILD_ZIGBEED and BUILD_OTBR.
  * When building CPCd the [cpc-daemon GitHub repo](https://github.com/SiliconLabs/cpc-daemon) is automatically fetched by CMake.
  * When building AoX, OTBR, Zigbeed, ZigPC the [GeckoSDK GitHub repo](https://github.com/SiliconLabs/gecko_sdk) is automatically fetched by CMake.

### Fixed (1.2.0)

* The naming convention of MQTT client IDs is updated for all Unify applications to `<unify_application>_<pid-of-application>`. Previously this was `uic_<incremented-number>`.

### Known Issues (1.2.0)

* **UIC-2261**/**UIC-1341**: Attribute Mapper parent operator navigation does not always work (only on left hand sides)
  _Note_: Avoid using the parent operator in UAM files, and if necessary, double check if it works.
* **UIC-2228**: Attribute Mapper reducer is disabled due to errors. The mapper will not successfully reduce constant expressions.
  _Note_: Avoid unnecessary calculations in the UAM files. e.g. write 100 instead of 10*10
* **UIC-2171**: SmartStart manager prints some errors if no SmartStart list is published.
  _Note_: The errors can be ignored, there is no consequence
* **UIC-1725**: Resize a terminal with a running Unify application and a few error messages regarding file descriptors will be displayed.
  _Note_: The errors can be ignored, there is no consequence
* **UIC-1593**: The Dotdot MQTT library does not always use enum names, even though the Unify Specification indicates that it should.
  _Note_: Be tolerant to numbers instead of strings for enums.

## [1.1.1] - Mar 2022

### Fixed (1.1.1)

* Running with command line parameter`--dump-config` now dumps proper YAML.
  Before it would only dump max 2 level objects, e.g. `zpc.poll.xxx`
  parameters was before dumped as:

  ```yaml
    zpc:
      poll.attribute_list_file: "/usr/share/uic/zwave_poll_config.yaml"
      poll.backoff: 30
      poll.default_interval: 60
  ```

  and now it is dumped as:

  ```yaml
    zpc:
      poll:
        attribute_list_file: "/usr/share/uic/zwave_poll_config.yaml"
        backoff: 30
        default_interval: 60
  ```

## [1.1.0] - Feb 2022

### Added (1.1.0)

* A new component, Gecko Bootloader Interface (uic_gbl_interface), for performing OTA updates
* A new component, Attribute Polling Engine (unify_attribute_poll), supplies the functionality of polling attribute reported values with a supplied interval.
* A new application, Name and Location (nal), for devices name and location management.
* A new application, Unify Packet Trace Interface Capture (upti_cap), to communicate with Silicon Labs WSTK adapters and publish debug channel messages to a MQTT broker.
